Israel agreed yesterday to short combat
pauses for Gaza is this uh is this the
first step in the right
direction yeah I would have to say so of
course it's not enough uh we'll probably
need much more I mean longer periods uh
and then concrete conditions for the
relief teams for the Emergency teams to
go on the ground additional conditions
even for the hospitals to
operate um this conditions for this
literally hundreds of thousands of
refugees that are now within Gaza but
but it's a step it's a step on the right
direction it it it shows that
International pressure from Europe from
the US it's finally meaning something
and it's finally giving us some result
and anything that uh that creates some
small relief on the so difficult
situation of those Palestinians living
in Gaz at this stage it's good to see
but we really need more than that
situation in in Gaza is getting worse
and worse with every day so that is why
your group is demanding a long-term
ceasefire however how are you going to
ensure that Hamas is also sticking with
that that they are not continuing with
their attacks on
Israel there I mean um it's always a
good question because when you are when
when you are dealing with terrorists
it's so complex because indeed the game
is not even fair because one of the part
one of the parts is immediately because
they are a terrorist organization you
you will immediately have kind of this
risk that they will not accept any of
these agreements that they will not
abide by these agreements and certainly
as it was obvious from the first
Invasion to Israel Amash is not
obviously concerned about international
law or human lives because we could see
what they did in Israel which was awful
idious and has to be condemned but still
we count on the influence on the work of
the Arab countries they are key in the
region and we hope that all together the
International Community can also
pressure uh put some pressure towards
that side towards amas so that they also
understand that if they don't respect
these minimum conditions it's it's
thousands and thousands of civilians in
Palestine that are at risk we hope that
they can also see that but uh on the
situation in Gaza let me say that this
is indeed a human drama that we are W
witnessing the way hundreds of thousands
of people are living in in now as
refugees the the conditions in the in
which the hospitals are still trying to
provide some sort of relief the
thousands of people sheltered in this
unra in in facilities the tens of
workers of unra that already died this
this this International assistance
workers that are perishing because they
are trying to help the citizens that's
why we really need um this humanitarian
ceasefire this this longer ceas fire so
that the civilians can be protected in
the end it's it's about human lives we
do need to protect these women and men
that have nothing to do with the
terrorist actions of Hamas Israel is
saying that they are there in Gaza to to
uh destroy Hamas at the same time some
members of your group U have called out
Israel for committing war crimes as they
say do you share this opinion and if yes
uh on what evidence is it based I'm sure
there will be
conditions and time to evaluate if
indeed war crimes were also committed
now in Gaza it's obvious that war crimes
were committed by amas in Israel but
when you see um the way our civilian
infrastructures are
attacked uh when you see civilians uh
being subject to this to this
situation uh there is a risk that some
more crimes might have been committed
already in Gaza I I'm I'm not I'm not
not to judge that uh I would say inequiv
but I think there will be time to
evaluate that but at this stage more
than saying if it's a war crime or not
for me it's really the protection of the
citizens the protection of human beings
that's my biggest concern that's why we
really ask Israel to refrain themsel in
within the remit of the international
law that's the most important it's not
the word it's not you know it's the
meaning of what is happening in Gaza to
hundreds of thousands of people that's
really Our concern
but the left in Europe seems to be split
over the Israel Hamas war with some uh
socialists and Democrats condemning the
terrorist attacks committed by Hamas in
Israel and others refusing to call out
Hamas as a terrorist group uh why is it
so what's the problem here well uh I
don't see that in my political family
indeed I see that some political
families I would say more to the left
still have that kind of ambiguity which
for me it's not acceptable what amage
did is as I said absolutely idious it's
not acceptable uh that you have any
ambiguity towards what Amash did or
towards that organization It Is by any
means a terrorist organization that
committed uh awful crimes towards
israelian towards innocent victims in
Israel so uh from our side as I said no
reason for that kind of ambiguity you
have to be absolutely INE equivocal on
condemning Amash also even to have
authority to request Respect by all the
parts to the international humanitarian
law if you are ambiguous towards amas
then you suddenly I would say uh are not
in the same conditions in the same place
you want to be to condemn any other
violation of the international law that
should not be the case so indeed if
there is any division is not on this
political family the governing social
Democrats in Germany they have made
clear there are reing behind Israel
Israel security and existence is a
reason of State for Germany um are the
German social Democrats in a very
special position uh here and does the
whole group understand their position
well uh we have had in important debates
uh I would say in all the European
institutions we could see at the
beginning that there were important
divisions that we managed to overcome as
a as a European Parliament even they the
the biggest political families in the
European Parliament we manag to unite
around a clear statement towards this
situation uh we had our debates
internally but we also were United
towards the resolution we managed to
negotiate within the European Parliament
and uh we always know that uh this
situation this longstanding conflict
between Israel and Palestine the
longstanding incompletion of the
two-state solution it's always something
divisive across the Spectrum the
political Spectrum as you know but uh we
have been successful on debating the
issues but finally come to a a joint
conclusion a joint statement from all
the parliament or most most of the
parliament which I think it was a good
sign it was a correct sign that we also
I mean in a moment in which Europe was
divided around the urul of underline
statements and the differences with Mr
borell or the council statements the
parliament showed unity and we as a
group even with our debates we have been
able to to to show also that that stance
of of of unity of coherence
um there is suddenly absolutely no
Divergence in my group regarding the
need for for one side condemn absolutely
what Amash did and from the other side
to protect the civilians to protect the
Palestinians the civilian ones that
might be affected by this actions of
Defense of Israel that's that's not an
issue of division for us and now now as
everyone is preoccupied with the war in
the Middle East Ukraine is uh afraid
that the Western attention could be um
destructed and the Western support for
Ukraine could be swayed away from Kiev
um is that a big
risk I would say that um the fight of
the ukrainians it's really the fight for
liberty in Europe um we should never
forget that what happened in Ukraine was
not just about the ukrainians it was an
attempt from Putin to in a sense uh uh
invade the European dream if you will
and uh and the response by the
ukrainians The Bravery of the ukrainians
fighting for that European dream
fighting in a sense for Europe was
supported by us and I don't see any risk
of us residing or diminishing our
support to ukrainians there's a lot of
there's a lot of conflicts in this world
there's a lot of complexity in this
world but Europe will I'm absolutely
sure stand with the ukrainians and let
us not forget that even in such complex
weeks as we are still the European
commission proposed the beginning the
formal beginning of the negotiations for
a session with Ukraine and mova and with
Bosnia by the way which we salute which
is also I think a sign to the ukrainians
that we do not forget about them and we
hope as a political family that then the
council confirms this formal start of
the negotiations with Ukraine with mova
because indeed um there's so many people
in this in that Eastern front of Europe
that they are paying with the life the
European dream so we have to pay respect
to that prepare ourselves of course to
host them but start these negotiations
with them because they they deserve that
hope from our side thank you very
much